x/vesting/spec/07_clients.md, before:

<!--
order: 7
-->

# Clients

A user can query the Evmos `x/vesting` module using the CLI, gRPC, or REST.

## CLI

Find below a list of `evmosd` commands added with the `x/vesting` module.
You can obtain the full list by using the `evmosd -h` command.

### Genesis

The genesis configuration commands allow users to configure the genesis `vesting` account state.

`add-genesis-account`

Allows users to set up clawback vesting accounts at genesis, funded with an allocation of tokens, subject to clawback.
Must provide a lockup periods file (`--lockup`), a vesting periods file (`--vesting`), or both.

If both files are given, they must describe schedules for the same total amount.
If one file is omitted, it will default to a schedule that immediately unlocks or vests the entire amount.
The described amount of coins will be transferred from the --from address to the vesting account.
Unvested coins may be "clawed back" by the funder with the clawback command.
Coins may not be transferred out of the account if they are locked or unvested.
Only vested coins may be staked.
For an example of how to set this see [this link](https://github.com/evmos/evmos/pull/303).

```go
evmosd add-genesis-account ADDRESS_OR_KEY_NAME COIN... [flags]
```

### Queries

The `query` commands allow users to query `vesting` account state.

**`balances`**

Allows users to query the locked, unvested and vested tokens for a given vesting account

```go
evmosd query vesting balances ADDRESS [flags]
```

### Transactions

The `tx` commands allow users to create and clawback `vesting` account state.

**`create-clawback-vesting-account`**

Allows users to create a new vesting account funded with an allocation of tokens, subject to clawback.
Must provide a lockup periods file (--lockup), a vesting periods file (--vesting), or both.

If both files are given, they must describe schedules for the same total amount.
If one file is omitted, it will default to a schedule that immediately unlocks or vests the entire amount.
The described amount of coins will be transferred from the --from address to the vesting account.
Unvested coins may be "clawed back" by the funder with the clawback command.
Coins may not be transferred out of the account if they are locked or unvested.
Only vested coins may be staked.
For an example of how to set this see [this link](https://github.com/evmos/evmos/pull/303).

```go
evmosd tx vesting create-clawback-vesting-account TO_ADDRESS [flags]
```

**`clawback`**

Allows users to create a transfer unvested amount out of a ClawbackVestingAccount.
Must be requested by the original funder address (--from) and may provide a destination address (--dest),
otherwise the coins return to the funder.
Delegated or undelegating staking tokens will be transferred in the delegated (undelegating) state.
The recipient is vulnerable to slashing, and must act to unbond the tokens if desired.

```go
evmosd tx vesting clawback ADDRESS [flags]
```

**`update-vesting-funder`**

Allows users to update the funder of an existent `ClawbackVestingAccount`.
Must be requested by the original funder address (`--from`).
To perform this action, the user needs to provide two arguments:

1. the new funder address
2. the vesting account address

```go
evmosd tx vesting update-vesting-funder VESTING_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS NEW_FUNDER_ADDRESS --from=FUNDER_ADDRESS [flags]
```

## gRPC

### Queries

| Verb   | Method                                 | Description                            |
| ------ | -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `gRPC` | `evmos.vesting.v1.Query/Balances`      | Gets locked, unvested and vested coins |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/balances/{address}` | Gets locked, unvested and vested coins |

### Transactions

| Verb   | Method                                                 | Description                      |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
| `gRPC` | `evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/CreateClawbackVestingAccount`    | Creates clawback vesting account |
| `gRPC` | `/evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/Clawback`                       | Performs clawback                |
| `gRPC` | `/evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/UpdateVestingFunder`            | Updates vesting account funder   |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/create_clawback_vesting_account` | Creates clawback vesting account |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/clawback`                        | Performs clawback                |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/update_vesting_funder`           | Updates vesting account funder   |

Commit message:

imp(vesting): add convert vesting account msg (#1400)
* impv: define tx protos for new MsgConvertVestingAccount

* impv: add msg_server and msg types for convert functionality

* fix: add additional check to see if vesting coins are left on the account

* fix: fix error msg

* impv: Add CLI command for the new msg

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

* tests: added unit tests

* fix: apply changes from code review

* fix: added msg to router

* fix: add new msg to codec

* formatting and linting

* CHANGELOG

* Update x/vesting/keeper/msg_server.go

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix: codec, msg tests and comments

* Update x/vesting/keeper/msg_server.go

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix: added back proto files and updated spec.

* docs: update spec

* proto: regenerate proto files

* markdown lint

* fix: added correct utility function import

* fix: add util tx

* fix: fix linting markdown

* Update x/vesting/spec/03_state_transitions.md

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix: more clear spec explanation

* Update x/vesting/client/cli/tx.go

Co-authored-by: Tomas Guerra <54514587+GAtom22@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix: add all test cases

---------

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tomas Guerra <54514587+GAtom22@users.noreply.github.com>

x/vesting/spec/07_clients.md, after:

<!--
order: 7
-->

# Clients

A user can query the Evmos `x/vesting` module using the CLI, gRPC, or REST.

## CLI

Find below a list of `evmosd` commands added with the `x/vesting` module.
You can obtain the full list by using the `evmosd -h` command.

### Genesis

The genesis configuration commands allow users to configure the genesis `vesting` account state.

`add-genesis-account`

Allows users to set up clawback vesting accounts at genesis, funded with an allocation of tokens, subject to clawback.
Must provide a lockup periods file (`--lockup`), a vesting periods file (`--vesting`), or both.

If both files are given, they must describe schedules for the same total amount.
If one file is omitted, it will default to a schedule that immediately unlocks or vests the entire amount.
The described amount of coins will be transferred from the --from address to the vesting account.
Unvested coins may be "clawed back" by the funder with the clawback command.
Coins may not be transferred out of the account if they are locked or unvested.
Only vested coins may be staked.
For an example of how to set this see [this link](https://github.com/evmos/evmos/pull/303).

```go
evmosd add-genesis-account ADDRESS_OR_KEY_NAME COIN... [flags]
```

### Queries

The `query` commands allow users to query `vesting` account state.

**`balances`**

Allows users to query the locked, unvested and vested tokens for a given vesting account

```go
evmosd query vesting balances ADDRESS [flags]
```

### Transactions

The `tx` commands allow users to create and clawback `vesting` account state.

**`create-clawback-vesting-account`**

Allows users to create a new vesting account funded with an allocation of tokens, subject to clawback.
Must provide a lockup periods file (--lockup), a vesting periods file (--vesting), or both.

If both files are given, they must describe schedules for the same total amount.
If one file is omitted, it will default to a schedule that immediately unlocks or vests the entire amount.
The described amount of coins will be transferred from the --from address to the vesting account.
Unvested coins may be "clawed back" by the funder with the clawback command.
Coins may not be transferred out of the account if they are locked or unvested.
Only vested coins may be staked.
For an example of how to set this see [this link](https://github.com/evmos/evmos/pull/303).

```go
evmosd tx vesting create-clawback-vesting-account TO_ADDRESS [flags]
```

**`clawback`**

Allows users to create a transfer unvested amount out of a ClawbackVestingAccount.
Must be requested by the original funder address (--from) and may provide a destination address (--dest),
otherwise the coins return to the funder.
Delegated or undelegating staking tokens will be transferred in the delegated (undelegating) state.
The recipient is vulnerable to slashing, and must act to unbond the tokens if desired.

```go
evmosd tx vesting clawback ADDRESS [flags]
```

**`update-vesting-funder`**

Allows users to update the funder of an existent `ClawbackVestingAccount`.
Must be requested by the original funder address (`--from`).
To perform this action, the user needs to provide two arguments:

1. the new funder address
2. the vesting account address

```go
evmosd tx vesting update-vesting-funder VESTING_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS NEW_FUNDER_ADDRESS --from=FUNDER_ADDRESS [flags]
```

**`convert`**

Allows users to convert their vesting account to the chain's default account (i.e `EthAccount`).
To perform this action a user needs to provide one argument:

1.the vesting account address

```go
evmosd tx vesting convert VESTING_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS [flags]
```

## gRPC

### Queries

| Verb   | Method                                 | Description                            |
| ------ | -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `gRPC` | `evmos.vesting.v1.Query/Balances`      | Gets locked, unvested and vested coins |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/balances/{address}` | Gets locked, unvested and vested coins |

### Transactions

| Verb   | Method                                                 | Description                      |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
| `gRPC` | `evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/CreateClawbackVestingAccount`    | Creates clawback vesting account |
| `gRPC` | `/evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/Clawback`                       | Performs clawback                |
| `gRPC` | `/evmos.vesting.v1.Msg/UpdateVestingFunder`            | Updates vesting account funder   |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/create_clawback_vesting_account` | Creates clawback vesting account |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/clawback`                        | Performs clawback                |
| `GET`  | `/evmos/vesting/v1/tx/update_vesting_funder`           | Updates vesting account funder   |
