docs/protocol/moduleaccounts.md, before:

<!--
order: 1
-->

# Module Accounts

Some modules have their own module account. Think of this as a wallet that can only be controlled by that module.
Below is a table of modules, their respective wallet addresses and permissions.

### Account Permisions and their meaning

The `burner` permission means this account has the permission to burn or destroy tokens.
The `minter` permission means this account has permission to mint or create new tokens.
The `staking` permission means this account has permission to stake tokens on behalf of it's owner.

| Name                    | Address                                             | Permissions        |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| `claims`                | [evmos15cvq3ljql6utxseh0zau9m8ve2j8erz89m5wkz](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos15cvq3ljql6utxseh0zau9m8ve2j8erz89m5wkz)   | `none`             |
| `erc20`                 | [evmos1glht96kr2rseywuvhhay894qw7ekuc4qg9z5nw](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1glht96kr2rseywuvhhay894qw7ekuc4qg9z5nw)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `fee_collector`         | [evmos17xpfvakm2amg962yls6f84z3kell8c5ljcjw34](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos17xpfvakm2amg962yls6f84z3kell8c5ljcjw34)   | `none`             |
| `incentives`            | [evmos1krxwf5e308jmclyhfd9u92kp369l083wn67k4q](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1krxwf5e308jmclyhfd9u92kp369l083wn67k4q)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `inflation`             | [evmos1d4e35hk3gk4k6t5gh02dcm923z8ck86qygxf38](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1d4e35hk3gk4k6t5gh02dcm923z8ck86qygxf38)   | `minter`           |
| `transfer`              | [evmos1yl6hdjhmkf37639730gffanpzndzdpmhv788dt](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1yl6hdjhmkf37639730gffanpzndzdpmhv788dt)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `bonded_tokens_pool`    | [evmos1fl48vsnmsdzcv85q5d2q4z5ajdha8yu3h6cprl](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1fl48vsnmsdzcv85q5d2q4z5ajdha8yu3h6cprl)   | `burner` `staking` |
| `not_bonded_tokens_pool`| [evmos1tygms3xhhs3yv487phx3dw4a95jn7t7lr6ys4t](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1tygms3xhhs3yv487phx3dw4a95jn7t7lr6ys4t)   | `burner` `staking` |
| `gov`                   | [evmos10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700jcrztvm](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700jcrztvm)   | `burner`           |
| `distribution`          | [evmos1jv65s3grqf6v6jl3dp4t6c9t9rk99cd8974jnh](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1jv65s3grqf6v6jl3dp4t6c9t9rk99cd8974jnh)   | `none`             |
| `evm`                   | [evmos1vqu8rska6swzdmnhf90zuv0xmelej4lq0n56wq](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1vqu8rska6swzdmnhf90zuv0xmelej4lq0n56wq)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `ibc`                   | [evmos1a53udazy8ayufvy0s434pfwjcedzqv345dnt3x](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1a53udazy8ayufvy0s434pfwjcedzqv345dnt3x)   | `minter` `burner`  |

Commit message:

fix(upgrade): add account number and sequence to migrated IBC escrow accounts (#1252)
* fix(upgrade): add account number and sequence to migrated escrow accounts

* fix(upgrade): small changes

* fix(upgrade): fix linting issues

* fix(upgrade) add changelog entry

* fix(upgrade) apply review comments

* fix(upgrade): add note on docs about escrow accounts

* fix(upgrade): update open channels to 37

* fix(upgrade): fix md linting issues

docs/protocol/moduleaccounts.md, after:

<!--
order: 1
-->

# Module Accounts

Some modules have their own module account. Think of this as a wallet that can only be controlled by that module.
Below is a table of modules, their respective wallet addresses and permissions.

Additionally, there are module accounts associated with IBC transfers.
For each IBC connection, there's an account of type `ModuleAccount` used to escrow the transferred coins when Evmos is the source chain.
Their addresses are derived using the first 20 bytes of the SHA256 checksum of the account name and following the format as outlined in [ADR 028](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md):

```go
// accountName is composed by the current version the IBC tranfer module supports (in this case, ics20-1), the portID (transfer) and the channelID
accountName := Version + "\0" + portID + "/" + channelID
addr := sha256.Sum256(accountName)[:20]

// example for channel-0
addr := sha256.Sum256("ics20-1\0transfer/channel-0")[:20]
```

This can be calculated with the [`GetEscrowAccount` function on IBC-go](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/c56f78905a5d2db01d867381d106c403fa9e5c4b/modules/apps/transfer/types/keys.go#L41-L55).

::: tip
**Note**: These escrow accounts are not listed when performing the query:

```shell
evmosd q auth module-accounts
```

This happens because the [`GetModuleAccount` function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/74d7a0dfcd9f47d8a507205f82c264a269ef0612/x/auth/keeper/keeper.go#L194-L224) used on the query considers only the accounts on the [`permAddrs` map of the `AccountKeeper`](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/74d7a0dfcd9f47d8a507205f82c264a269ef0612/x/auth/keeper/keeper.go#L54-L68).
This address map is set at compile time and cannot be changed on runtime.
:::

### Account Permisions and their meaning

The `burner` permission means this account has the permission to burn or destroy tokens.
The `minter` permission means this account has permission to mint or create new tokens.
The `staking` permission means this account has permission to stake tokens on behalf of it's owner.

| Name                    | Address                                             | Permissions        |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------- | :----------------- |
| `claims`                | [evmos15cvq3ljql6utxseh0zau9m8ve2j8erz89m5wkz](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos15cvq3ljql6utxseh0zau9m8ve2j8erz89m5wkz)   | `none`             |
| `erc20`                 | [evmos1glht96kr2rseywuvhhay894qw7ekuc4qg9z5nw](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1glht96kr2rseywuvhhay894qw7ekuc4qg9z5nw)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `fee_collector`         | [evmos17xpfvakm2amg962yls6f84z3kell8c5ljcjw34](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos17xpfvakm2amg962yls6f84z3kell8c5ljcjw34)   | `none`             |
| `incentives`            | [evmos1krxwf5e308jmclyhfd9u92kp369l083wn67k4q](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1krxwf5e308jmclyhfd9u92kp369l083wn67k4q)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `inflation`             | [evmos1d4e35hk3gk4k6t5gh02dcm923z8ck86qygxf38](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1d4e35hk3gk4k6t5gh02dcm923z8ck86qygxf38)   | `minter`           |
| `transfer`              | [evmos1yl6hdjhmkf37639730gffanpzndzdpmhv788dt](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1yl6hdjhmkf37639730gffanpzndzdpmhv788dt)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `bonded_tokens_pool`    | [evmos1fl48vsnmsdzcv85q5d2q4z5ajdha8yu3h6cprl](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1fl48vsnmsdzcv85q5d2q4z5ajdha8yu3h6cprl)   | `burner` `staking` |
| `not_bonded_tokens_pool`| [evmos1tygms3xhhs3yv487phx3dw4a95jn7t7lr6ys4t](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1tygms3xhhs3yv487phx3dw4a95jn7t7lr6ys4t)   | `burner` `staking` |
| `gov`                   | [evmos10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700jcrztvm](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700jcrztvm)   | `burner`           |
| `distribution`          | [evmos1jv65s3grqf6v6jl3dp4t6c9t9rk99cd8974jnh](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1jv65s3grqf6v6jl3dp4t6c9t9rk99cd8974jnh)   | `none`             |
| `evm`                   | [evmos1vqu8rska6swzdmnhf90zuv0xmelej4lq0n56wq](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1vqu8rska6swzdmnhf90zuv0xmelej4lq0n56wq)   | `minter` `burner`  |
| `ibc`                   | [evmos1a53udazy8ayufvy0s434pfwjcedzqv345dnt3x](https://www.mintscan.io/evmos/account/evmos1a53udazy8ayufvy0s434pfwjcedzqv345dnt3x)   | `minter` `burner`  |
