docs/protocol/telemetry.md, before:

<!--
order: 3
-->

# Telemetry

Gather relevant insights about the Evmos application and modules with custom metrics and telemetry. {synopsis}

To understand how to use the metrics below, please refer to the [Cosmos SDK telemetry documentation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/core/telemetry.html).

## Supported Metrics

| Metric                                         | Description                                                                         | Unit        | Type    |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------- | :------ |
| `feemarket_base_fee`                           | Amount of base fee per EIP-1559 block                                               | token       | gauge   |
| `feemarket_block_gas`                          | Amount of gas used in an EIP-1559 block                                             | token       | gauge   |
| `recovery_ibc_on_recv_total`                   | Total number of recoveries using the ibc `onRecvPacket` callback                    | recovery    | counter |
| `recovery_ibc_on_recv_token_total`             | Total amount of tokens recovered using the ibc `onRecvPacket` callback              | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_coin_amount_total`             | Total amount of converted coins using a `ConvertCoin` msg                           | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_coin_total`                    | Total number of txs with a `ConvertCoin` msg                                        | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_erc20_amount_total`            | Total amount of converted erc20 using a `ConvertERC20` msg                          | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_erc20_total`                   | Total number of txs with a `ConvertERC20` msg                                       | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_total`                     | Total number of txs processed via the EVM                                           | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_gas_used_total`            | Total amount of gas used by an etheruem tx                                          | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_gas_limit_per_gas_used`    | Ratio of gas limit to gas used for a etheruem tx                                    | ratio       | gauge   |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_incentives_total`          | Total number of txs with an incentivized contract processed via the EVM             | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_incentives_gas_used_total` | Total amount of gas used by txs with an incentivized contract processed via the EVM | token       | counter |
| `incentives_distribute_participant_total`      | Total number of participants who received rewards                                   | participant | counter |
| `incentives_distribute_reward_total`           | Total amount of rewards that are distributed to all incentives' participants        | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_total`                     | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation                                  | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_staking_total`             | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to staking                       | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_incentives_total`          | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to incentives                    | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_community_pool_total`      | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to community pool                | token       | counter |

Commit message:

docs(telemetry): add feesplit endpoint (#852)

docs/protocol/telemetry.md, after:

<!--
order: 3
-->

# Telemetry

Gather relevant insights about the Evmos application and modules with custom metrics and telemetry. {synopsis}

To understand how to use the metrics below, please refer to the [Cosmos SDK telemetry documentation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/core/telemetry.html).

## Supported Metrics

| Metric                                         | Description                                                                         | Unit        | Type    |
| :--------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------- | :------ |
| `feemarket_base_fee`                           | Amount of base fee per EIP-1559 block                                               | token       | gauge   |
| `feemarket_block_gas`                          | Amount of gas used in an EIP-1559 block                                             | token       | gauge   |
| `feesplit_distribute_total`                    | Amount of fees distributed to registered smart contracts                            | token       | counter |
| `recovery_ibc_on_recv_total`                   | Total number of recoveries using the ibc `onRecvPacket` callback                    | recovery    | counter |
| `recovery_ibc_on_recv_token_total`             | Total amount of tokens recovered using the ibc `onRecvPacket` callback              | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_coin_amount_total`             | Total amount of converted coins using a `ConvertCoin` msg                           | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_coin_total`                    | Total number of txs with a `ConvertCoin` msg                                        | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_erc20_amount_total`            | Total amount of converted erc20 using a `ConvertERC20` msg                          | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_convert_erc20_total`                   | Total number of txs with a `ConvertERC20` msg                                       | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_total`                     | Total number of txs processed via the EVM                                           | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_gas_used_total`            | Total amount of gas used by an etheruem tx                                          | token       | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_gas_limit_per_gas_used`    | Ratio of gas limit to gas used for a etheruem tx                                    | ratio       | gauge   |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_incentives_total`          | Total number of txs with an incentivized contract processed via the EVM             | tx          | counter |
| `tx_msg_ethereum_tx_incentives_gas_used_total` | Total amount of gas used by txs with an incentivized contract processed via the EVM | token       | counter |
| `incentives_distribute_participant_total`      | Total number of participants who received rewards                                   | participant | counter |
| `incentives_distribute_reward_total`           | Total amount of rewards that are distributed to all incentives' participants        | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_total`                     | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation                                  | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_staking_total`             | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to staking                       | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_incentives_total`          | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to incentives                    | token       | counter |
| `inflation_allocate_community_pool_total`      | Total amount of tokens allocated through inflation to community pool                | token       | counter |
