docs/users/wallets/keplr.md, before:

<!--
order: 4
-->

# Keplr

Connect your Keplr wallet with Evmos {synopsis}

## Pre-requisite Readings

- [Install Keplr](https://www.keplr.app/) {prereq}

The Keplr browser extension is a wallet for accessing applications in the Cosmos ecosystem and managing user identities. It can be used to connect to {{ $themeConfig.project.name }} through the official testnet and request Funds from the Faucet.

## Install Keplr

Add the Keplr browser extension following the instructions on the [Keplr website](https://www.keplr.app/). The Keplr extension is officially supported only on Chromium-based explorers.

## Create/Import Account

Open the Keplr extension on your browser. If you are setting up Keplr for the first time, you can either create a new account or import an existing account. Refer to the [Keplr documentation](https://keplr.crunch.help/getting-started) for further information.

## Connect to Evmos Testnet and Request Funds from the Faucet

Once you are signed in to the Keplr extension, visit the [Faucet](https://faucet.evmos.dev/) and click the `Request Funds with Keplr` button. Then approve the both following pop ups `Chain Add Request` and `Request Connection` to add the {{ $themeConfig.project.name }} testnet chain (`evmos_{{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_chain_id }}-{{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_version_number }}`) to Keplr and approve the connection.

![chain add request](./../../img/keplr_approve_chain.png)

After approval, you can see a transaction confirmation informing you that {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} have been successfully transferred to your [evmos address](../../users/technical_concepts/accounts#address-formats-for-clients) on the testnet (only `eth_secp256k1` addresses are supported).

![chain add request](./../../img/keplr_transaction.png)

::: tip
You can request {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} from the [Faucet](./../../developers/faucet) for each address only once every 24h. If you try to request multiple times within the 24h cooldown phase, no transaction will be initiated. Please try again in 24 hours.
:::

View your account balance either by clicking on the Keplr extension or by [interacting with the node](../../quickstart/interact_node). Note that Faucet might not display the amount of {{ $themeConfig.project.testnet_denom }} transferred by the Faucet, as it might be smaller than the number of decimals displayed in the Keplr extension.

Commit message:

docs: update keplr document (#534)
* update keplr doc

* address comments

* Apply suggestions from code review

* lint

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <federico.kunze94@gmail.com>

docs/users/wallets/keplr.md, after:

<!--
order: 4
-->

# Keplr

Connect your Keplr wallet with Evmos {synopsis}

## Pre-requisite Readings

- [Install Keplr](https://www.keplr.app/) {prereq}

The Keplr browser extension is a wallet for accessing applications in the Cosmos ecosystem and managing user identities. It can be used to connect to {{ $themeConfig.project.name }} through the official testnet and request Funds from the Faucet.

## Install Keplr

Add the Keplr browser extension following the instructions on the [Keplr website](https://www.keplr.app/). The Keplr extension is officially supported only on Chromium-based explorers.

## Create/Import Account

Open the Keplr extension on your browser. If you are setting up Keplr for the first time, you can either create a new account or import an existing account. Refer to the [Keplr documentation](https://keplr.crunch.help/getting-started) for further information.

## Connect Keplr to Mainnet

Once you are signed in to the Keplr extension, you can connect the wallet with the Evmos network. The Evmos mainnet network is already built into Keplr; look for the `Evmos (beta)` network.
